docs/source/usage/quickstart.rst, before:

Quick Start
============

Prerequisites
-------------
As a first step you need a Python environment with all required dependencies. The recommended way is to use Mini-/Anaconda
and to create a new environment using one of our predefined environment files in `environments/ <https://github.com/neuralhydrology/neuralhydrology/tree/master/environments>`__.
Make sure to select the correct file, depending on your system.

If you don't have a CUDA-capable GPU, use:

.. code-block::

    conda env create -f environments/environment_cpu.yml

If you do have a CUDA-capable GPU, use ``environment_cuda11_8.yml``, depending on your hardware.

If you prefer to not use Mini-/Anaconda, make sure you have a Python environment with Python >= 3.10 with all packages installed that are listed in 
these environment files. 
The next steps should be executed from within this Python environment.

Installation
------------
There are two ways how you can install NeuralHydrology: Editable or non-editable.
If all you want to do is run experiments with existing datasets and existing models, you can use the non-editable
installation. To install the latest release from PyPI:

.. code-block::

    pip install neuralhydrology

To install the package directly from the current master branch of this repository, including any changes that are not yet part of a release, run:

.. code-block::

    pip install git+https://github.com/neuralhydrology/neuralhydrology.git

If you want to try implementing your own models or datasets, you'll need an editable installation.
For this, start by downloading or cloning the repository to your local machine.
If you use git, you can run:

.. code-block::

    git clone https://github.com/neuralhydrology/neuralhydrology.git

If you don't know git, you can also download the code from `here <https://github.com/neuralhydrology/neuralhydrology/zipball/master>`__ and extract the zip-file.

After you cloned or downloaded the zip-file, you'll end up with a directory called "neuralhydrology" (or "neuralhydrology-master").
Next, we'll go to that directory and install a local, editable copy of the package:

.. code-block::

    cd neuralhydrology
    pip install -e .

The installation procedure (both the editable and the non-editable version) adds the package to your Python environment and installs three bash scripts:
`nh-run`, `nh-schedule-runs` and `nh-results-ensemble`. For details, see below.

Data
----
Training and evaluating models requires a dataset.
If you're unsure where to start, a common dataset is CAMELS US, available at
`CAMELS US (NCAR) <https://ral.ucar.edu/solutions/products/camels>`_.
This dataset is used in all of our tutorials and we have a `dedicated tutorial <../tutorials/data-prerequisites.nblink>`_ with download instructions that you might want to look at.


Training a model
----------------
To train a model, prepare a configuration file, then run::

    nh-run train --config-file /path/to/config.yml

If you want to train multiple models, you can make use of the ``nh-schedule-runs`` command.
Place all configs in a folder, then run::

    nh-schedule-runs train --directory /path/to/config_dir/ --runs-per-gpu X --gpu-ids Y

With X, you can specify how many models should be trained on parallel on a single GPU.
With Y, you can specify which GPUs to use for training (use the id as specified in ``nvidia-smi``).


Evaluating a model
------------------
To evaluate a trained model on the test set, run::

    nh-run evaluate --run-dir /path/to/run_dir/

If the optional argument ``--epoch N`` (where N is the epoch to evaluate) is not specified,
the weights of the last epoch are used.

To evaluate all runs in a specific directory you can, similarly to training, run::

    nh-schedule-runs evaluate --directory /path/to/config_dir/ --runs-per-gpu X --gpu-ids Y


To merge the predictons of a number of runs (stored in ``$DIR1``, ...) into one averaged ensemble,
use the ``nh-results-ensemble`` script::

    nh-results-ensemble --run-dirs $DIR1 $DIR2 ... --output-dir /path/to/output/directory --metrics NSE MSE ...

``--metrics`` specifies which metrics will be calculated for the averaged predictions.

Commit message:

MacOS with Metal support
Option to train with device "mps" on MacOS with Metal support.

docs/source/usage/quickstart.rst, after:

Quick Start
============

Prerequisites
-------------
As a first step you need a Python environment with all required dependencies. The recommended way is to use Mini-/Anaconda
and to create a new environment using one of our predefined environment files in `environments/ <https://github.com/neuralhydrology/neuralhydrology/tree/master/environments>`__.
Make sure to select the correct file, depending on your system.

If you don't have a CUDA-capable GPU, or if you want to train on MacOS with Metal support, use:

.. code-block::

    conda env create -f environments/environment_cpu.yml

If you do have a CUDA-capable GPU, use ``environment_cuda11_8.yml``, depending on your hardware.

If you prefer to not use Mini-/Anaconda, make sure you have a Python environment with Python >= 3.10 with all packages installed that are listed in 
these environment files. 
The next steps should be executed from within this Python environment.

Installation
------------
There are two ways how you can install NeuralHydrology: Editable or non-editable.
If all you want to do is run experiments with existing datasets and existing models, you can use the non-editable
installation. To install the latest release from PyPI:

.. code-block::

    pip install neuralhydrology

To install the package directly from the current master branch of this repository, including any changes that are not yet part of a release, run:

.. code-block::

    pip install git+https://github.com/neuralhydrology/neuralhydrology.git

If you want to try implementing your own models or datasets, you'll need an editable installation.
For this, start by downloading or cloning the repository to your local machine.
If you use git, you can run:

.. code-block::

    git clone https://github.com/neuralhydrology/neuralhydrology.git

If you don't know git, you can also download the code from `here <https://github.com/neuralhydrology/neuralhydrology/zipball/master>`__ and extract the zip-file.

After you cloned or downloaded the zip-file, you'll end up with a directory called "neuralhydrology" (or "neuralhydrology-master").
Next, we'll go to that directory and install a local, editable copy of the package:

.. code-block::

    cd neuralhydrology
    pip install -e .

The installation procedure (both the editable and the non-editable version) adds the package to your Python environment and installs three bash scripts:
`nh-run`, `nh-schedule-runs` and `nh-results-ensemble`. For details, see below.

Data
----
Training and evaluating models requires a dataset.
If you're unsure where to start, a common dataset is CAMELS US, available at
`CAMELS US (NCAR) <https://ral.ucar.edu/solutions/products/camels>`_.
This dataset is used in all of our tutorials and we have a `dedicated tutorial <../tutorials/data-prerequisites.nblink>`_ with download instructions that you might want to look at.


Training a model
----------------
To train a model, prepare a configuration file, then run::

    nh-run train --config-file /path/to/config.yml

If you want to train multiple models, you can make use of the ``nh-schedule-runs`` command.
Place all configs in a folder, then run::

    nh-schedule-runs train --directory /path/to/config_dir/ --runs-per-gpu X --gpu-ids Y

With X, you can specify how many models should be trained on parallel on a single GPU.
With Y, you can specify which GPUs to use for training (use the id as specified in ``nvidia-smi``).


Evaluating a model
------------------
To evaluate a trained model on the test set, run::

    nh-run evaluate --run-dir /path/to/run_dir/

If the optional argument ``--epoch N`` (where N is the epoch to evaluate) is not specified,
the weights of the last epoch are used.

To evaluate all runs in a specific directory you can, similarly to training, run::

    nh-schedule-runs evaluate --directory /path/to/config_dir/ --runs-per-gpu X --gpu-ids Y


To merge the predictons of a number of runs (stored in ``$DIR1``, ...) into one averaged ensemble,
use the ``nh-results-ensemble`` script::

    nh-results-ensemble --run-dirs $DIR1 $DIR2 ... --output-dir /path/to/output/directory --metrics NSE MSE ...

``--metrics`` specifies which metrics will be calculated for the averaged predictions.
